hello my name is Nathaniel Frizzell and
today I'm coming to you as JW sterk w2n
AF so I'm here in the town of longer
bein on Svalbard and I'm spending the
week here at the super darn radar
conference while I'm staying here I'm
also staying at the JW v echo ham radio
station so and to give you a little
video tour of the station so this is the
main cabin right here and you can see
that it is connected by this coax over
here to a rather nice tower that has
some beams and the number of other
antennas attached to it the main beam
there is a 15 meter 17 meter and 20
meter beam and there's a 10 and 12 meter
beam on top and then there's a number of
other wire antenna is connected to it
that come off the antenna so a cabin is
a rather small little cabin but while
the front is not that fancy if you walk
around here you can see there's a few
other cabins and huts around the row
here
it has a rather good view in the back
and this is one of the beautiful
features of being here in longer bein
this is Advent uten or the Advent cured
and behind the feud is opera Filat or
opera mountain and this is a view you
get from the back of the ham radio
station there are some more antennas
over there it's just beautiful have to
be a little careful because sometimes
polar bears do come up through this
fjord and they can be dangerous so you
do have to watch out for that but
generally the main town of long deer
bein which is right behind the tavern
going the other direction is fairly safe
and there's actually a lot of tourist
attractions there so it's a really great
place to come if you're interested in
some sort of Arctic travel with a few
standard creature comforts so I was
fortunate over the weekend to be able to
operate in the CQ worldwide WP x CW
contests for 2014 and I can go inside
the cabin here take a look around so you
come in the cabin and here they have a
very nice sitting area got a few old CQ
world-wide certificates on the wall here
going back to the early to mid-1980s and
we have a nice little kitchen area which
is really handy when you're in a cabin
this Israel cabin living though even
though there's a sink there we don't
have any running water there's a door I
came in at and here's our bunks so I'm
sharing the cabin this weekend with a
Ethan k8g you here's our water closet
with the Cinderella combustion toilet
inside and then here we have the radio
room there you can see it through that
window is a great view of opera Feola an
Advent
an Advent Jordan very beautiful now the
main operating room has two desks two
operating desk so this is the main desk
over here and the cabin comes equipped
with in with a yaesu ft 1000 mark five
and attached to it we have a old icon I
see to KL the amplifier got an auto
tuner there we have man tennis which you
can see it's all very nicely labeled and
here's our antenna rotor it's very nice
you can just select the awesome if you
want to point the beam at and it will
spin in that direction of course you do
have all these mountains that your
signal can be bouncing off of and
refracting off of so that can add to
some confusion but for a first try it's
a good help they've got all sorts of
operating references on the wall here
some clocks no internet but there is a
monitor here that you can plug in your
laptop and I brought my own wind here
with me and I was able to get up to a
700 I'm sorry umm 599 QSOs or the CQ
worldwide contest this weekend and the
other side of the room we have the other
operating desk and Ethan is currently
operating as JW stroke k8g you and he
brought his own Ella craft k2 to operate
from the second dusk does come with its
own radio but Ethan likes to carry his
own equipment so he brought that and one
of the nice things is there's also a
second antenna switch here
and so either desk can select from the
same set of antennas and antenna switch
will automatically locked out the other
operator so you don't accidentally
transmit into someone else's radio so
this is these are the basic operating
conditions for jw5 echo it's great if
you want to stay in town here we are
just a two-minute walk from the main
town of Long Durban and you have a nice
comfortable cabin so that's pretty much
it 7-3 from JW stroke W to NIF and maybe
you two can come visit the arctic and
operate from here